Hello everyone and welcome to part five tuples sets and Bullen's tuple sets and blends are going to
be the last data types are the basic data structures for Python that we're going to be covering.
So we'll just cover them briefly and explain what they are.
Tuples are immutable sequences meaning the kind of act like a list except you can't index something
from a tuple and try to change it.
It's immutable.
Sets are unordered collections of unique elements in booleans just like before are true and false statements.
Let's get started by going to the editor and showing you some quick examples of tuples sets and booleans.
All right let's first just show booleans in Python billions in Python are true with a capital T.
And false with a capital F and as quick note you can also use 0 and 1 if control flow statements but
it's more common to see true and false than just appears 0 or 1.
But sometimes the situation makes more sense to use a numerical boolean value versus true and false
OK.
That's basically it for booleans if you want to learn more about them you can go back to javascript's
section where we explain how to actually use booleans more clearly.
As far as the syntax though it's just a capital-T in capital F when dealing with booleans.
Now tuples are immutable sequences.
So let's cover them real quickly.
You construct a tuple just like you would a list except instead of using square brackets you use princes
and then you create a sequence.
There is a tuple one two three and you can index out of a tuple using the bracket notation like that
for a list.
So if I want the very first item in a tuple that would just be index 0.
So let's show this.
I'm going to say Python and this file is.
No it's not pi.
And here I get one out since I was printing t of 0 tuples can also hold mixed data types just like a
list.
So I could say T is equal to a true hundred 123 save that say print t save it on us that pi.
That's totally fine.
So tuples again is basically like a list except the main difference is that there are immutable.
So if I try to say t of 0 is equal to something new and I run this I'm going to get an error and notice
it says tuple object does not support item assignment.
And that was actually the same error we got when we try to do the same thing with a string.
So both a string and a tuple are immutable a list however is mutable.
So let's change these to be a list by just changing out the brackets.
And now if I try this.
And let's instead of calling it t we'll call it my list.
My list.
And then finally over here my list I run this again.
Now a true and one two three are totally fine.
I successfully ran that.
So let's actually print it out to make sure save it.
Run it in here.
I can see that a list is mutable but a tuple is not.
That's basically all you need to know about a list slicing indexing.
It's all exactly the same between a list and a tuple.
So it's really that.
And now finally let's discuss sets.
So sets are unordered collections of unique elements.
Now we can construct a set by calling the set keyword.
I can say set are x is equal to set close print CS and then if I want to add something to the set I
can use the Add method and you can see here the list of methods available.
But I will say add one to the set and then I will add to the set and then I'm going to print the set.
So let's save this and see what happens.
So here I have my set.
Want to know how it has the curly brackets so it looks very similar to a dictionary except there aren't
key value pairs here.
It's just a bunch of elements.
And remember for a set the elements are an order.
So it has no particular order.
If I print out x another time it may come out in either way.
So let's add some more elements to a set such as for let's do 0.1 loops.
I need to add that save this round this again.
0.1 1 2 and 4.
So notice that it's coming out in a different way than I had actually imported.
And don't be fooled that they come out sorted.
That's not exactly how the set is putting them in.
So it doesn't send them out in any sort of sorting order.
It's always an unordered collection of elements unique elements.
So let's focus on that unique aspect.
So what does it actually mean by unique.
Well I'm going to try adding the similar elements multiple times so I will try to add four again and
say X add 4 again.
Now a set.
When you run this it's only going to put out 1 2 and 4.
Even though I added for three separate times the reason for that is because it only takes in unique
elements.
So once an element is in the set that's it you can't keep adding it multiple times.
It's only unique elements which makes a set call really convenient to call on a list of multiple elements.
So if I have a list of repeated elements like this one so I see the brackets here this side is a list.
Nice do a set call on that list and let's print it out.
So now I'm going to save this as let's call it converted because I'm converting a list into a set and
then I say print out converted will save this and then run this.
And now I can see I get 1 to 4.
That was X and converted I got this whole list with multiple elements to just be one to three.
OK.
That's really all we need to know now about booleans sets and tuples later on when we cover for loops
We'll talk about tuple and unpacking a little bit which is really common with Python sets.
We won't be seeing them too much throughout the course booleans we'll see those all the time.
So keep those in mind as we continue on through the course.
Thanks and I'll see you at the next lecture.